A coverage should contain the following sections in order in a JSON:
1. Metadata
1.a. Period
1.b. Location 
2. Summary
2.a. Synopsis
2.b. Characters
3. Evaluation
3.a. Writing / Dialogues
3.b. Characters

It should take this form with values filled according to guidelines below:
{
  "Metadata": {
    "Period": [],
    "Location": []
  },
  "Summary": {
    "Synopsis": "",
    "Characters": []
  },
  "Evaluation": {
    "Writing / Dialogues": {
      "Grade": "",
      "Reason": ""
    },
    "Characters": {
      "Grade": "",
      "Reason": ""
    }
  }
}

1.a. Period. When is the story taking place? Be as specific as possible.

1.b. Location. In which country and city is the story taking place (if specified)? 

2.a. Synopsis. The Synopsis should be as brief as possible but give a clear and complete understanding of the story. 
- The Synopsis should include every major plot point.
- It should include every significant character.
- It should include important and vivid details. 
- It should avoid sub plots unless they have a direct bearing on the main story and move the plot forward. 
- It should always use the omniscient third person and present tense. 
- It should not get into a running commentary.
- It should avoid any phrases that take the reader out of the story, i.e., "the story opens with," "we cut to," etc. 
- Character names should appear in all caps the first time they are introduced along with their age and ethnicity if specified (subsequently, they should be in regular case).

2.b. Characters. List characters.
- Characters should be in order of importance (Lead, Supporting Lead,  Supporting). 
- For each character, write a brief character description (name, importance, age, gender, ethnicity if specified). 
- For minor characters, indicate their relationship to the lead character or other important roles. 

3.c. Writing / Dialogues
- Grade the script writing / dialogues as Excellent, Good, Fair, or Poor.
- Justify your grade by exhaustively answering the following questions: Are dialogues catchy, lifelike, funny, or in need of a punch-up? Do different characters have distinct voices? Does the tone suit the story's concept? Was the script too long? Was anything missing? 

3.d. Characters
- Grade the script characters as Excellent, Good, Fair, or Poor.
- Justify your grade by exhaustively answering the following questions: Is the hero realistic? Do they significantly change during the story? Can we root for them? Do supporting characters enrich the story? 