During the 19th century, the Bennet family, consisting of Mr. Bennet and Mrs. Bennet and their five daughters—Jane, Elizabeth, Mary, Kitty, and Lydia—live in comparative financial independence as gentry at Longbourn, a working farm in rural England. As the Bennets have no sons, Longbourn is destined to be inherited by Mr. Bennet's cousin, Mr. Collins, so Mrs. Bennet is anxious to marry off her five daughters before Mr. Bennet dies to secure herself in her widowhood.

Wealthy bachelor Charles Bingley has recently moved into Netherfield, a nearby estate. He is introduced to local society at an assembly ball, along with his haughty sister Caroline and reserved friend, Mr. Darcy, who "owns half of Derbyshire". Bingley is enchanted with the gentle and beautiful Jane, while Elizabeth takes an instant dislike to Darcy after he coldly rebuffs her attempts at conversation and she later overhears him insulting her. When Jane becomes sick on a visit to Netherfield, Elizabeth goes to stay with her, verbally sparring with both Caroline and Darcy.

Later the Bennets are visited by Mr. Collins, a clergyman who is in awe of his patroness, Lady Catherine de Bourgh. During dinner the family has some fun at Mr. Collins' expense and afterward are treated to a reading by him of Fordyce's Sermons. After learning from Mrs. Bennet that Jane is expected to become engaged soon, Collins decides to pursue Elizabeth. Meanwhile, the charming Lieutenant Wickham of the newly-arrived militia captures the girls' attention; he wins Elizabeth's sympathy by telling her that Darcy cheated him of his inheritance.

At a ball at Netherfield, Elizabeth, startled by Darcy's abrupt appearance and request for a dance, accepts his offer but vows to her best friend Charlotte Lucas that she has "sworn to loathe him for all eternity". During the dance, she attacks him with witty sarcasm and Darcy responds in kind. At the same ball, Charlotte expresses concern to Elizabeth that Jane's behaviour towards Mr. Bingley is too reserved and that Bingley may not realise that she loves him.

The next day at Longbourn, Collins proposes to Elizabeth but she strongly declines. When Bingley unexpectedly returns to London, Elizabeth dispatches a heartbroken Jane to the city to stay with their aunt and uncle, the Gardiners, in hopes of re-establishing contact between Jane and Bingley. Later, Elizabeth is astonished to learn that her friend Charlotte will marry Collins to gain financial security and avoid remaining a spinster. Months later, Elizabeth visits the newly-wed Mr. and Mrs. Collins who live in a cottage at Rosings, Lady Catherine's manor estate; they are invited to dine at Rosings and there meet Darcy, who is Lady Catherine's nephew, and Colonel Fitzwilliam, Darcy's friend. Here, Darcy begins to show a greater interest in Elizabeth. The next day, not realizing that Jane is Elizabeth's sister, Colonel Fitzwilliam tells Elizabeth that Darcy had separated Bingley from Jane. Distraught, Elizabeth flees from a church service that all are attending, but Darcy follows her and proposes marriage.

He says he loves her "most ardently" despite her "lower rank". Elizabeth refuses him, citing his treatment of Jane and Wickham; they argue fiercely, with Darcy explaining that he had been convinced that Jane did not return Bingley's love. Darcy insults Elizabeth's family, which makes Elizabeth angrier. She hurls biting words at him. Darcy leaves angry and heartbroken. That evening, he finds Elizabeth at the Collins cottage and presents her with a letter explaining his side of events. Darcy gives insight to Wickham's character and describes exploits including Wickham's attempted elopement with Darcy's 15-year-old sister, Georgiana. The letter concludes with Darcy explaining the reasons why he separated Bingley and Jane.

A couple of months later, the Gardiners take Elizabeth on a trip to the Peak District; their tour includes Darcy's estate, Pemberley. Elizabeth, who first asks to skip a visit to the estate, agrees to go with them, believing Darcy is in London. Elizabeth is impressed by Pemberley's wealth and beauty. During the visit, she accidentally runs into Darcy who has arrived home early. He later invites her and the Gardiners to dine the next day. Darcy's manners have softened considerably, and Georgiana, having heard flattering things about her from her brother, tells Elizabeth that she already likes her.

Later in the day, when Elizabeth learns that her youngest sister Lydia has run away with Wickham, she tearfully blurts out the news to Darcy and the Gardiners before returning home. Her family expects social ruin for having a disgraced daughter, but over a week later they are relieved to hear that Mr. Gardiner had discovered the pair in London and that they had married. Lydia later lets slip to Elizabeth that Darcy was the one who found them and paid for their marriage.

Bingley and Darcy suddenly return to Netherfield; Bingley proposes to Jane and she accepts. The same evening, Lady Catherine unexpectedly visits Elizabeth, insisting that she renounce Darcy. Elizabeth refuses the request and, unable to sleep, walks on the moor at dawn. There, she meets Darcy, also unable to sleep after hearing of his aunt's behaviour. He admits his continued love and Elizabeth accepts his proposal.

Mr. Bennet gives his consent after Elizabeth assures him of her love for Darcy. In the U.S. release of the film, an additional last scene shows the newlyweds outside at Pemberley happy togeher.
