1.a. Title. 

1.b. Genre. Drama, Science Fiction, Thriller

1.c. Period. 2008, 2021

1.d. Location. Atlanta, CDC, Zoo

1.e. Budget. TODO

2.a. Logline. After a highly contagious virus spread like wildfire globally, the U.S. Government tries to segregate a related genetic mutation that led to genius children. We follow a gifted daughter (12) trying to fit in and who does not know yet to be a centerpiece in the current undercover alien invasion.

2.b. Synopsis. Thirteen years ago, in an altered past, a highly contagious virus spreads globally. DR. STEVEN (56), the CDC's Director in Atlanta, tasks DR. JANET (28), his girlfriend and colleague, to find a cure. DR. WILLIAM (33) is driving home when he calls his wife JENNIFER (33) to stock their place with food and medicines. He suddenly slams on the brakes to avoid hitting JEDIDIAH "JED" (42), an African American homeless. Jed starts to cough and convulses. William calls 911 and arrives late at the CDC. As he explains why, Janet runs over to a wall and slams her hand down on a large red button; protective glass drops from the ceiling and surrounds William in case he is infected.

PETER (28) — an engineer with a medical background who chooses to work with the Peace Corps — takes care of his sick wife, LAURA (28). They watch the PRESIDENT (57) report on TV that the new super flu has made its way to the United States. Laura goes into a severe coughing fit. Her body stiffens as her eyes roll into the back of her head. Peter calls the number on the TV-screen. 

Twelve hours later, Laura has slipped into a coma, and a CDC team moves her to their van. But soon, the entire team coughs and passes out. Peter, apparently immune, drives their van to the CDC. There, Janet questions him. While the CDC does not usually recruit civilians, she wants to test Peter and discuss his medical background to see how they can collaborate. Jed wakes up at the hospital and learns that William is paying for his medical bills.  

A news montage shows a time-lapse to 13 years later. First, cities burn as all Emergency Responders report a severe shortage in their workforce. The US death toll tops seven-hundred thousand and over one and a half million worldwide. Then, as the world recovers from the worst pandemic in human history, reports discuss a possible "genetic mutation" from the virus exposure. The President approves the creation of The Genetic Oversight Committee, working along with the CDC. 

In today's altered present, Laura wants to put her genius IQ daughter STACY (12) into one of the new charter schools for gifted children. Stacy wants to remain in a 'normal' school, and Peter supports her. She has a weird nightmare where a controlling human-insect takes the place of her mother Laura. Peter tells Steven that he tested Stacy's DNA: she carries the virus mutation, but he did not tell Laura. Meanwhile, Janet works to find a cure, and the President tries to pass a Registration Act — a mandatory DNA test to check for the virus' mutation for every citizen. 

Stacy goes on a Zoo school trip. Three BULLIES (from 12 to 14) persecute FREDDIE (12), a child from a charter school class, until Stacy stands up for him. Meanwhile, TAZ, an anxious gorilla, charges toward his enclosure entrance and slams the door open. Taz grabs a KEEPER's sedative pistol, shoots him, runs out, and pushes the bullies to the ground. The two classes run from the area. Stacy calms down Taz through sign language, saving a bully and enabling the Zoo to take back the gorilla to his enclosure peacefully.

SENATOR SCHEFIELD (57) runs for the Presidency to fight the current President's policy on their young people affected by the mutation. Jed, now married and in control of his life, joins the senator's strategic staff and comes to William's to pay him back the medical expenses from years ago. William stopped working for the CDC and lost his wife Jennifer to cancer a year ago. His daughter, DELILAH (28), is pregnant and places Jed's hand on her stomach. An image flashes in Jed's memory: two human-insect like creatures similar to the one in Stacy's dream — one male and a pregnant female. Laura and Peter learn about the gorilla who mysteriously listened to their daughter Stacy. 

In a medical facility in Siberia, two PHYSICIANS in biohazard suits monitor an unconscious man who soon goes into an extreme seizure. The room goes dark, and a blue light emanates from all around. Suddenly, the two physicians go sailing across the room and slam up against the double-door entrance. We hear sounds of clothing and flesh being ripped apart while a pool of blood seeps underneath the doors.

Season 1 soon introduces YURI (late 60s) and ARIANNA (20), both inhabited by the insect-like aliens. They are on the run from the Russian Government as they search for The Catalyst — the child that will lead the Gahn' (their alien race) toward their last stage of evolution into god-like beings. Meanwhile, Janet works for a global shadow organization that secretly monitors the world's citizens looking for signs of alien life on earth. She recruits her ex, Steven, but he will end up leaking secrets to William. Unbeknownst to her husband Peter, Laura's mind was replaced with the consciousness of a key leader in the alien invasion. She succeeds in transferring her child Stacy to the local charter school for mutated Children. An alien rebel leader inhabits Jed's mind and will stop at nothing to eliminate his kind. He recruits William and Delilah into his cause.  Delilah and her unborn child both carry the mutation. At the end of the season, Yuri and Arianna become the mentor and protector of Stacy, who takes her first steps into becoming The Catalyst.

The series builds up in scheming and confrontation around the alien invasion until Stacy becomes a god-like being in season 5. She will strip everyone of their unique abilities and give the world one single ability: Bonding — where minds are shared, and all knowledge is passed between individuals and groups, enabling people to live in others' shoes. 

2.c. Characters.

3.a. Comments. This mediocre cross between CONTAGION and INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS suffers from its convoluted plot and contradictory ambitions. This alien invasion series holds an inherent conceptual problem: it tries to explore and combat xenophobia, but the alien race literally conquers the universe and takes over human bodies in a quest for power to reach their final evolution. Even if essentializing is always wrong, the xenophobia of the aliens and related mutations could feel justified. Besides this issue at the heart of the series, the writing is only fair. The project would benefit from focusing more on character development with a potentially simpler plot, enabling to convey the theme more impactfully.  

The pilot focuses on setting up the convoluted plot, which hinders the development of the characters, their flaws, and potential arc. Furthermore, many characters featured in the pilot are not mentioned in the bible and appear unnecessary. The project could benefit from clarifying its theme and the essence of its story to develop characters accordingly. The pilot and bible focus too much on respectively setting up and explaining an overly convoluted plot.

The pilot is dialogue-heavy, but it feels relatively organic given the complex plot. However, it fails to develop characters and their relationships effectively. The focus on the plot becomes detrimental to the emotional involvement of the audience (both in the pilot and bible).  

The pilot strives to create an original structure with time — showing an altered past and present and featuring mysterious flashes of memories or visions. But it fails to escalate in character conflicts and could feel scattered. 

Ultimately, "Exitus" has ambitions and some entertainment potential but would benefit from a simpler plot. It should focus more on developing characters, relationships, and themes — this is where the drama lies. 

3.b. Grading.
- Concept: Fair
- Plot / Structure: Fair
- Writing / Dialogues: Fair
- Characters: Fair
- Commerciality: TODO

3.c. Recommendation. Pass